[docathon] Asset metadata in Insights (#24027)
dagster-io/dagster: docs/docs-beta/docs/dagster-plus/insights/asset-metadata.md

sidebar_position: 1
---

> Out of the box, Dagster+ Insights gives you visibility into a variety of common metrics across your data platform.

Reviewer: +1

> Out of the box, Dagster+ Insights gives you visibility into a variety of common metrics across your data platform.

Author: Would that be redundant if we port the [general insights doc](https://docs.dagster.io/dagster-plus/insights)?

> Out of the box, Dagster+ Insights gives you visibility into a variety of common metrics across your data platform.

Author: I'm going to ship this as is and add a note to link back to the insight home doc for those non-custom examples when that's ready (which I plan to write tomorrow).

By creating custom metrics from asset metadata, you can use Insights to perform historical aggregation on any
data your assets can emit.

## What you'll learn

- How to add asset metadata as a custom metric to Dagster+ Insights

<details>
  <summary>Prerequisites</summary>

To follow the steps in this guide, you'll need a Dagster+ account on the Pro plan.

</details>

## Step 1: Emit numeric metadata on your assets at runtime

> You'll need one or more assets that emit the same metadata key at run time. Insights metrics

Reviewer: Worth mentioning an example here, even if you don't show code for it?

are most valuable when you have multiple assets that emit the same kind of metadata. Follow [the metadata
guide](/guides/data-modeling/metadata#attaching-metadata-to-an-asset-at-runtime) to add numeric metadata
to your asset materializations.

> ## Step 2: Enable viewing numeric metadata in Dagster+ Insights

Reviewer: ^ yes

Once your assets are emitting numeric metadata values, you'll be able to enable viewing them in the Insights UI.

To add your metadata key to the list of metrics shown in Insights, click **Edit** in the sidebar next to the **User provided metrics** header:

![Viewing the Insights tab in the Dagster+ UI](/img/placeholder.svg)
{/* <Image
alt="Viewing the Insights tab in the Dagster UI"
src="/images/dagster-cloud/insights/insights-tab.png"
width={2640}
height={1516}
*/}

> In the dialog that appears, use the eye indicator to show or hide metrics in Insights. Selected metrics will be immediately available to view in Insights in the sidebar and on individual asset pages.

Reviewer 2: I found mention of "immediately available" followed by a note on 24 hours to be contradicting.
```suggestion
In the dialog that appears, use the eye indicator to show or hide metrics in Insights. Selected metrics will be visible in both the Insights sidebar and on individual asset pages.
```

Reviewer: +1
